Athlete Simulator (C++ Console Game)

A small C++ console game where you manage and train an athlete. The goal is to keep your athlete in good condition by balancing their strength, happiness, and hunger while they train and compete.

You can choose between different athlete types, perform training activities, and manage their stats over time. If their stats fall too low, your athlete will retire.

This project was built as a way to practice object-oriented programming in C++, including inheritance, class design, and file input/output.

Features

Create a new athlete or load a previously saved one

Choose between different athlete types:

Soccer Player

Basketball Player

Boxer

Train, feed, or play matches with your athlete

Sport-specific activities (ex: dunking, sparring, free kicks)

Track athlete stats:

Happiness

Strength

Hunger

Save and load progress using files

ASCII animations for certain actions

How the Game Works

At the start of the program you can either:

Load a saved athlete

Create a new athlete

The game then shows a menu where you can perform different actions with your athlete.

Example actions include:

Train your athlete

Feed them

Send them to a match

Practice sport-specific skills

Each action affects the athlete's stats.

For example:

Training increases strength but decreases hunger.

Playing increases happiness but reduces strength and hunger.

Feeding increases hunger but reduces happiness.

These stat changes are handled in the base Athlete class. 

Athlete

If a stat drops below zero, the athlete retires and the game ends.

Object-Oriented Design

The program uses inheritance to represent different athlete types.

Athlete (base class)
│
├── soccerPlayer
├── basketPlayer
└── boxer

The base class stores shared attributes:

name

hunger

strength

happiness

Each sport then adds its own unique actions such as:

Soccer: free kicks, penalties, passing

Basketball: dunking, free throws, three-pointers

Boxing: heavy bag training, sparring, jump rope

Example of the base athlete structure: 

Athlete

File Structure
main.cpp            → main game loop
Athlete.h/.cpp      → base athlete class
soccerPlayer.h/.cpp → soccer athlete class
basketPlayer.h/.cpp → basketball athlete class
boxer.h/.cpp        → boxer athlete class
Makefile            → compile instructions
Building and Running

Compile using g++:

g++ main.cpp Athlete.cpp soccerPlayer.cpp basketPlayer.cpp boxer.cpp -o athlete_sim

Run the program:

./athlete_sim

Follow the prompts in the terminal to interact with your athlete.

What I Learned

This project helped reinforce several C++ concepts:

Object-oriented programming

Inheritance and polymorphism

Class design and encapsulation

File input/output for saving game state

Structuring multi-file C++ programs

Future Improvements

Possible improvements for the project:

Add more athlete types

Add a scoring or career progression system

Improve input validation

Add a GUI instead of console output

Add more game events or randomness
